# Setting Up

The way I feel about _configuration_ is about the same way I feel about _exercise_. I know it's good for me, and it will ensure success in whatever discipline I focus on, but it sure is hard to do sometimes. 

When you're looking to build a web application of any sort, you better believe that having a good configuration setup will benefit you in the long run.

I actually believe that it will make your application better, because you will spend less time fretting about whenever you need to turn some knobs and pull some levers.

With FastAPI, you can set up your configuration in a myriad of ways. I tried a few before settling with something that worked well for me.

It is very heavily based on [Redowan Delowar](https://twitter.com/rednafi)'s article [Pedantic Configuration Management with Pydantic](https://rednafi.github.io/digressions/python/2020/06/03/python-configs.html), which I highly recommend you read/bookmark.

He lists out a few goals with his approach, and one that really stuck out to me was this:

>Switch between the different environments e.g development, staging effortlessly.

Ah, _effortlessly_!

## Switch It Up

I knew early on that I would want to end up with a development environment where I could try new things, add features, test new packages, etc... And I most definitely wanted a separate production environment with unique settings.

I already had a fuzzy idea of a database devoted to sandboxing or refining ideas, and another to hold my "real" data. I knew that I would, at the very least, have two separate sets of database credentials.

But was there an easy way to switch contexts without having to hard-code my settings each time?

## Why Is This Important?

When you're developing, there's a quick and dirty way to change settings&mdash;namely, doing it in line. Let's say I want to load up my development database:

    DB_URI_ADDRESS = "mongodb+srv://admin:SomePassword@cluster.devdatabase.mongodb.net"

If I wanted to load up my production database instead, I would need to go in and change the value of `DB_URI_ADDRESS`.

That's all fine and dandy when it's just one setting, but chances are, settings between your development and production instances will vary in more ways than one.

Sure, initially it might feel like it's saving you time (hard coding setting values), but it will ultimately slow you down and open you up to possible mishaps (like keeping a super secret password nestled in your code by accident).

Don't postpone setting up your application with a capable and thorough configuration system. You'll save yourself **a lot** of time down the road, particularly if you ultimately are planning on deploying this thing.

## FastAPI and Pydantic

The fact that FastAPI builds on top of [pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io) means that you can utilize it for awesome settings management. The FastAPI docs include a [very thorough (and enlightening) explanation](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/settings/) of how you can do that.

If you're so inclined, check out both of the resources I've provide in this section. 

- [Pedantic Configuration Management with Pydantic](https://rednafi.github.io/digressions/python/2020/06/03/python-configs.html)
- [FastAPI - Settings and Environment Variables](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/settings/)

You may not even need to come back here. But if you're on a roll and for some reason like taking advice from someone who only has time to work on Python when he's half-asleep, then do carry on!

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Follow Along - App Structure)](../01_App_Stucture/1.3_Follow_Along.md) || [NEXT (Super Secret Sauce)](2.2_Super_Secrets.md)   |