# Super Secret Sauce

Have you ever wondered why some foods have labels with names like "galactose" or "maltose"? Why not just say _sugar_?

Food companies don't always want you to know what's in their food. Some things they hide in plain sight (see above), while other "trace amounts" may not have to be listed at all.

I know, that's somewhat alarming. But these companies will do what they can to hide their _secrets_.

So there's my analogy.

I hope you liked it.

## Trace Amounts

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not require companies to list "trace" or "incidental amounts" of ingredients if it has no "functional" or "technical" effect in the finished product.

What does this have to do with your web application?

What I'm getting at is that you should think about certain "ingredients" that you would want to **keep out** of the label (or in your case, your configuration file).

One of the ways to accomplish this is to use _environment variables_.

## Environmentally Conscious

I'm only going to touch on this briefly, and mostly because this was an area I wasn't too familiar with when I started building my application. You may already be way ahead of me on this, so I'll try not to ramble.

Environmental variables live _outside_ of your application. They are stored in your **operating system**, and can be created in your shell. They can be accessed/read by your Python code (or other applications on your computer), but they are inherently separate from it.

Again, _environment variables_ can be accessed by your code, but they are _not_ a part of it.

These variables can be changed on the fly in your terminal/shell.

This makes it so that you can keep those settings (e.g., usernames, passwords, server names, etc...) only available on your local machine, and not hard-coded in your configuration file.

But typically, if you have many settings that change a lot (this will usually be the case with any web application), it may be easier to store these variables in a file, and then read them _as if they were_ environment variables to begin with.

## Dotenv

At the onset, we created a `.env` file at the root of our project. As you may now guess, this is where we will be storing a lot of those super secret "trace" ingredients. That means that you will want this file saved locally, but never added to source control. 

Remember, ssshhh, it's a secret. 

A typical `.env` file is a text file that contains key/value pairs. It may look something like this:

    ENV_STATE = "dev"  # this part is a comment
    ADMIN_EMAIL = "buddy@holly.com"
    ADMIN_PASSWORD = "MaryTylerMoore"

You get the idea. Note that you can use a `#` to denote a comment, just like in Python.

Ultimately, we will read this file into our application. Once again, if you're using source control, **make sure to exclude it**. As a matter of fact, do it right now.

Open your .gitignore file. Add the following:

    .env

Yup, that's it.

I'll go over the `.gitignore` file a little later, but I like to get this one piece added right away. Just in case.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Setting Up)](2.1_Setting_Up.md) || [NEXT (Pydantic Settings Management)](2.3_Pydantic_Settings_Management.md)  |