# Pydantic Settings Management

Pydantic is, in and of itself, a very powerful library. If you don't know much about it, I would highly recommend that you take a look at the [documentation](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io).

It describes itself as:

>Data validation and settings management using python type annotations.

We will be focusing on the settings management portion of pydantic, for now. When we begin talking about our database models, we will circle back to the data validation bit.

For now, let's see how pydantic will help us with setting up our application.

## Basic Example

You can begin building out your settings using pydantic by creating a class object and subclassing pydantic's `BaseSettings` model.

Here's what that would look like in practice:

    from pydantic import BaseSettings


    class MySettings(BaseSettings): 
        name: str
        username: str
        password: str

What pydantic does under the hood is that it provides validation to your data and provides a context in terms of loading that data (i.e., it allows us to load data from our aforementioned environment variables).

Note: In order to validate your data, pydantic uses _type hints_ to ensure that said data is valid to begin with. This feature of pydantic is beyond the scope of what I'm doing here, but needless to say, it's all in the documentation. Really. [Take a look](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io).

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Super Secret Sauce)](2.2_Super_Secrets.md) || [NEXT (Bringing It Together)](2.4_Bringing_It_Together.md)   |