# Bringing It Together

So now we'll get to the slightly more complex part, which is putting these pieces together to have a robust configuration system.

## Goal

Again, following the logic from [Redowan's article](https://rednafi.github.io/digressions/python/2020/06/03/python-configs.html), we will be creating a configuration system for three different scenarios:

1.  App logic relevant to FastAPI
2.  Configuration for a development environment
3.  Configuration for a production environment

The approach we take here is to include the values for _both_ the development and production environments in your `.env` file. Application logic that is not as sensitive can exists within our configuration file. You could optionally include it in your `.env` file as well, but that is up to you.

## Examples

Let's see how this plays out in our `.env` file.

    # .env file

    ENV_STATE = "dev"  # or prd

    DEV_SECRET_KEY = "PleaseChangeMe"
    PRD_SECRET_KEY = "PleaseChangeMeToo!!"

    DEV_DB_URI = "mongodb://localhost:27017"
    PRD_DB_URI = "mongodb://admin:SomePassword@127.0.0.1:27017"

Any time you need to dictate _some value_ for your development environment, you prefix it with `DEV_`. Conversely, the equivalent _value_ for your production environment will be prefixed with `PRD_`.

(Using this model, you could add as many _environments_ as you wish. For example, if you wanted a _staging_ environment, you could add a prefix of your choice, such as `STG_`. You would just need to code for that.)

Next, we will build a `config.py` file that will contain the pydantic models that will drive our configuration, using the `BaseSettings` class to access our `.env` file.

You can call `.env` values directly into your pydantic class in two ways. One way to do this is to call directly from the field you are defining. 

For example, note that above, the `.env` has a key of `ENV_STATE` set to "dev". To access that value in python, we start by building a class that inherits `BaseSettings`.

    class GlobalConfig(BaseSettings):
        """Global app configuration settings."""

Once you have defined the class, you can include a list of key value pairs that will be use throughout your app. (For more detail, please review the [pydantic documentation](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io).)

But to apply the specific `ENV_STATE` that is defined in your `.env` file, this is how you do it within your `GlobalConfig` class:

    class GlobalConfig(BaseSettings):
        """Global app configuration settings."""

        ENV_STATE: Optional[str] = Field(None, env="ENV_STATE")   

And that's it. Going forward, your `config.py` file will read `ENV_STATE` as "dev", or any value assigned in your `.env` file.

## To DEV or to PRD

We can use some Pythonic hand-waving to ensure that we only need to build _one_ `GlobalConfig` class. Note how our `.env` file has two separate variables that look very similar:

    DEV_DB_URI = "mongodb://localhost:27017"
    PRD_DB_URI = "mongodb://admin:SomePassword@127.0.0.1:27017"

Are we going to include both of those in our pydantic class? That seems like a lot of work (typing is hard)!

Nay! Nay, I say!

Our `GlobalConfig` class will look a little like this:

    class GlobalConfig(BaseSettings):
        """Global app configuration settings."""

        ENV_STATE: Optional[str] = Field(None, env="ENV_STATE")   
        DB_URI: Optional[str] = None


Wait what? But, how then will we populate the DB_URI with the correct value?

Firstly, pydantic allows us to load the `.env` file with ease. Observe:

    class GlobalConfig(BaseSettings):
        """Global app configuration settings."""

        ENV_STATE: Optional[str] = Field(None, env="ENV_STATE")   
        DB_URI: Optional[str] = None

        class Config:
            """Load the dotenv file."""

            env_file = '.env'  # path relative to your `config.py` file
            env_file_encoding = 'utf-8'  # if you dont want default OS encoding


Lastly, we will create a `DevConfig` class, as well as a `PrdConfig` class. They will both inherit from `GlobalConfig`. You could assign additional variables within either of these classes (but you don't have to either).

A nested `Config` class (similar to example above) defines an attribute of `env_prefix` with "DEV_". This makes it so that pydantic reads your prefixed variables&mdash;such as DEV_DB_URI in your `.env` file, without having to explicitly name the file as so. 

See it working below:

    class DevConfig(GlobalConfig):
        """Development settings"""

        class Config:
            env_prefix: str = "DEV_"


    class PrdConfig(GlobalConfig):
        """Production settings"""

        class Config:
            env_prefix: str = "PRD_"


## All Set

And lastly, we create a final class that returns an instance of the configuration depending on what the `ENV_STATE` we defined in the `.env` file.

class FactoryConfig:
    def __init__(self, env_state: Optional[str]):
        self.env_state = env_state

    def __call__(self) -> Any:
        if self.env_state == "dev":
            return DevConfig()

        elif self.env_state == "prd":
            return PrdConfig()


settings = FactoryConfig(GlobalConfig().ENV_STATE)()


Now, whenever you call `settings` from your `config.py` file, you will have access to whatever settings are defined through your `ENV_STATE`.

And that's it!

I would still want to stress that if you're struggling with these concepts, try to work through it a piece at a time, and please visit the link at the top for the original (more detailed) description of this process.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Pydantic Settings Management)](2.3_Pydantic_Settings_Management.md) |\|| [NEXT (Follow Along)](2.5_Follow_Along.md)   |