# App Structure Patterns

There are many different ways to approach your web application structure. If you are unsure about the benefits of (or even the differences between) something like MVC (model, view, controller) or DDD (domain driven design) patterns (among others), I wouldn't spend too much time fretting over it.

A better approach early on might be to ensure that you at least _think_ about what your application will be doing ahead of time and then try to build a structure that makes sense in that context.

You may want to take a look at how other apps are built, or maybe familiarize yourself with what those terms (in the intro paragraph) truly mean. But at the end of the day, you need to get started somewhere.

I spent a little time reviewing blog posts and examining the directory structure of different projects on GitHub. I think this is a great way to start, also giving yourself permission to evolve in a way that makes sense to you.

## FastAPI Design

The model I follow in this  will be based on what has worked for my blog, but I want to share two links that may prove helpful.

-   [FastAPI - Bigger Applications](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/bigger-applications/)
-   [Bob Waycott - Flask App Organization](https://bobwaycott.com/blog/how-i-use-flask/flask-app-organization/)

You'll notice that the second link uses Flask as the example framework, but the concepts in that article were very helpful to me when I got started.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Overview)](../00_Introduction/00_Overview.md) || [NEXT (Sample App Layout)](1.2_Sample_Layout_Tree.md)   |