# Follow Along

## Create Your Own App Structure

To get going, you may want to make sure you've gotten all set up and ready to go.

#### Requirements
-   Make sure you have Python installed in your system
-   Be comfortable in your IDE/Text editor of choice
-   Understand how to create a virtual environment and how to activate it

### Step 1

Choose a folder on your system for your project root. Create a directory that mimics the following layout. (You don't have to manually create the `.venv` folder. That can be created when you make your virtual environment.):

    project_root/                   # can be any name you choose
    ┣ src/                          # typically called "app" or "src"
    ┃ ┣ api/
    ┃ ┣ core/
    ┃ ┣ crud/
    ┃ ┣ db/
    ┃ ┣ lib/
    ┃ ┣ models/
    ┃ ┣ main.py                     # follow instructions below
    ┃ ┗ __init__.py                 # keep empty
    ┣ tests/
    ┣ .venv/                         # virtual environment
    ┣ .env                          # create .env file
    ┣ .gitignore                    # create .gitignore file

### Step 2

Open up the project in your favorite IDE/Text editor and create a virtual environment (preferably using Python 3.9 or newer).

Make sure you are in your `project_root`. In most cases, the command you are looking for is:

    python -m venv .venv

>Ensuring you have Python installed _may_ not be enough, depending on your OS or even how you chose to install Python. I'm not going to devote a lot of time to this, but I acknowledge that it can be difficult understanding how/why this matters. While there are different tools that may help with Python installations/environments/dependencies, I want to keep things as simple as possible, which is working with a virtual environment as outlined above.

### Step 3

The `main.py` file will be responsible for starting your FastAPI application. But first, make sure you have FastAPI installed.

Assuming you have already **created** and **activated** your virtual environment. Let's pip install some stuff!

    python -m pip install fastapi

And also uvicorn:

    python -m pip install "uvicorn[standard]"

>Note: I'll be using `python -m pip` for any package installations. If you're wondering why, you can read [this article by Brett Cannon](https://snarky.ca/why-you-should-use-python-m-pip/).

Then, in your `main.py` file, create an instance of a FastAPI application. You can do that like this:

    from fastapi import FastAPI

    def get_app() -> FastAPI:

        app = FastAPI()

        return app


    app = get_app()

We will obviously add to this later, but for now, it should suffice.

## Next Steps

The objective should be to have a relative idea of what your application will be doing by building a skeleton/framework that is in line with your overall goals. Feel free to modify your app structure into something that makes sense for you. Take your time.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  |  | |
|:---|---|---:|
|  [PREV (Sample App Layout)](1.2_Sample_Layout_Tree.md) || [NEXT (Setting Up)](../02_Configuration/2.1_Setting_Up.md)   |