# Model Structure

If you are not careful, your MongoDB database collections can get out out of hand. MongoDB is very flexible, allowing your documents (equivalent of SQL tables) change over time.

That is because you are not limited in terms of what you can add to a collection (aside from _size_), which is much different than dealing with a SQL table that has already been predefined.

However, this _does not_ mean that you shouldn't try to set a structure to your collections as you build your application.

## Rules Can Be Good

As you think through your use cases, start setting up your parameters. I'll be providing an example of a blog-like application, which can have _relatively_ simple database models.

However, if you're building an API-centric application, you may have to think broadly in terms of what data you will be storing, and specifically as to what type of data you will be processing.

Having a strong sense of what rules your application will uphold when it comes to data will give you a strong foundation going forward.

Without a foundation, any structure is bound to fall. This is no different.

## How To Approach Building A Model

Let's say I want to build my own website which may contain posts on any given subject. There are already a couple of obvious _fields_ I may want to include/store in my database.

-   Title of my post
-   The date when I published it
-   The actual content of the post
-   A list of relevant tags/categories

## That Was Easy

Not so fast. 

While _rules can be good_, they can also be pretty limiting if you don't stop and consider a more long-term view.

If you're building a blog, you may want a way to capture certain data that may not be entirely visible on the page, but you may want to store in your database anyway. 

This could include:

-   Keywords related to content
-   "Meta" fields for HTML parsing (SEO and accessibilty)
-   Links to relevant images for relevant post
-   Author (even if you're the only contributor, why limit yourself?)
-   Slug (for your url)
-   Whether the post is published or not (in case you want to easily publish/unpublish content)
-   Summary for post blurb

And so on...

Although I wont cover it in this section, you could also build rules for what kind of user info you may want to store, or if you have a specific domain, collections based on the data you are dealing with.

## Think About Specificity

Once you get an idea about the kind of information you wish to store, start thinking more specifically about what that data looks like.

For example, one of the things I listed about was having a value associated with whether your post is published or not.

Hopefully you can already get a sense that this field will be of type `bool` and will either be a `True` or `False` value. You can then use that field to ensure that whatever is saved in your database is accessible to your frontend/display.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Model Behavior)](3.1_Model_Behavior.md) || [NEXT (Connecting: One Piece at a Time)](3.3_Connecting.md)   |