# Connecting: One Piece at a Time

If you've been following along, you should now have a `config.py` file that you built in your `core` directory.

However, we have not yet provided any values to the configuration to help us link to our database.

Connecting to a MongoDB database through Python requires a URI connection scheme. From the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/connection-string/), this is what that scheme looks like:

    mongodb://[username:password@]host1[:port1][,...hostN[:portN]][/[defaultauthdb][?options]]

We just have to create that from our configuration.

## Building the URI

I don't want to take up too much time with database creation. If you've created a [MongoDB Atlas account](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register), you can create a new cluster. 

When you click on "Connect", it should take you through a series of steps. The second step should give you an option to _choose a connection method_. Select **Connect your application**, and you can then chose your Driver (Python) and Version (whichever is the latest).

This will then provide you with the URI specific to your setup.

The URI should look similar to this:

    mongodb+srv://<username>:<password>@yourcluster.example.mongodb.net/myFirstDatabase?retryWrites=true&w=majority

You'll notice that our configuration file does not include a field for a single URI string. 

Plenty of reasons to do that, but needless to say, it helped me with debugging, especially being able to change values granularly such as db name or user name/password.

You could include the URI directly in your `config.py` file, and it would likely look something like this:

    DEV_MONGO_DB_URI: Optional[str] = None
    PRD_MONGO_DB_URI: Optional[str] = None

However, my examples ahead will show you how to bulid a connection string from individual values.

In Atlas, I would go ahead and ensure that you have two databases set up for each of your environments.

## Piecemeal

To break down the pieces of a URI string, take a look at how the values look in our `.env` file.

    DEV_MONGO_SCHEME = mongodb+srv
    DEV_MONGO_HOST = yourcluster.example.mongodb.net
    DEV_MONGO_USER = <username>  # username created for dev db
    DEV_MONGO_PASS = <password>  # corresponding pw
    DEV_MONGO_DB = myFirstDatabase  # or preferably "dev_db"

    PRD_MONGO_SCHEME = mongodb+srv
    DEV_MONGO_HOST = yourcluster.example.mongodb.net
    DEV_MONGO_USER = <username>  # username created for prd db
    DEV_MONGO_PASS = <password>  # corresponding pw
    DEV_MONGO_DB = mySecondDatabase  # or preferably "prd_db"

If you haven't already, update your `.env` file to include the correct URI values. (Remember to make sure your `.env` file is included in your `.gitignore` file.)

