# Validating the URI

One of the features of pydantic is that it can help validate values coming in, as such saving you a bunch of headaches down the road.

I use this pydantic feature to _validate_ my MongoDB connection string at the same time that it's built.

## Database Configuration

You could potentially include this configuration in your `config.py` file, but I like to create a separate place where I handle my database connection settings.

However, the process involves using a pydantic validator to make sure my URI string is valid.

Observe:

    from pydantic import AnyUrl, BaseSettings, validator
    from src.core.config import get_app_settings()
    
    settings = get_app_settings()  # cached version of settings in config.py

    class DataBase(BaseSettings):
        """Utility class to define mongodb settings."""

        MONGO_DB_URI: Optional[AnyUrl] = None  # insert URI directly 

        @validator("MONGO_DB_URI", pre=True, check_fields=False)
        def db_is_valid(cls, v):
            if isinstance(v, AnyUrl):
                return v
            try:
                return AnyUrl.build(
                    scheme=settings.MONGO_SCHEME,
                    user=settings.MONGO_USER,
                    password=settings.MONGO_PASS,
                    host=settings.MONGO_HOST,
                    path=f"/{settings.MONGO_DB}",
                    query="retryWrites=true&w=majority"
                )
            except Exception:
                raise AttributeError(v)

So what's happening here?

We give ourselves the flexibility to input a URI directly using `MONGO_DB_URI`. Normally, you may not want to do this, but it provides a quick and dirty solution if you are doing a quick test.

For me, it was very useful because in addition to Atlas, I had a version of MongoDB (Community Edition) running locally. I would often insert the URI for that local version when testing a quick feature.

The `@validator` decorator checks to make sure that the `MONGO_DB_URI` that is entered is valid. It does so by checking if the value is of type `AnyUrl`&mdash;a pydantic field type with specific rules.

>You can learn more about pydantic field types in the [documentation](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/usage/types/).

However, in the event that `MONGO_DB_URI` is not valid (or when set to `None`), the decorator "builds" the `AnyUrl` value using the parameters from our `config.py` file.

>At a later time, I may spend a little more time with the `@validator` decorator, but do check out pydantic documentation on this as well. In plain English, the code is looking to see if the provided URI is valid. If not, it will attempt to build it from the values referenced in our configuration file.

Note that we are importing `get_app_settings` from our `config.py` module and assigning it to `settings`. The corresponding configuration values will be based on the `ENV_VAR` values defined in our `.env` file. 

If we have `ENV_VAR = "dev"` selected, that means that `settings.MONGO_USER` corresponds to `DEV_MONGO_USER` defined in `.env`.

You get the idea.

Anyway, pydantic takes care of building our URI and validating the path structure!

We _try_ to build the URI with our settings, but if pydantic is unable to build a valid `AnyUrl` value from the pieces we are feeding it, then it will raise an `AttributeError` exception.

>In case you're wondering: The URI string does not include an authentication database name. If you **need** to include a query for authentication database, you could include a value in your `.env` file and feed that over as well. However, since it is unspecified, the client will attempt to authenticate against the `admin` database, which is the default database used by Atlas.

## Which Database?

You'll notice that the URI string does not include the name of the database we will be using (either the "dev" or "prd" database).

We will let our ODM handle that part.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Connecting: One Piece at a Time)](3.3_Connecting.md) || [NEXT (Initializing the Database)](3.5_Initializing_Database.md)   |