# Initializing the Database

Once you are ready to connect to your database, there are a couple of things that need to happen behind the scenes.

First, you need a client class to connect to the database. This is handled by the Motor library, and specifically the `AsyncIOMotorClient` class.

Second, you need to initialize the connection to your specific database.

## Motor - Getting the Client Ready

Um, so what is [Motor](https://motor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)?

It is a coroutine-based API that accesses MongoDB. You won't have to worry about it too much.

While we use Beanie as our ODM to interface with the MongoDB database, Beanie uses Motor under the hood to initialize the client.

That looks something like this:

    client = motor.motor_asyncio.AsyncIOMotorClient("mongodb://user:pass@host:27017")


## Beanie - Initializing the Database

Once you have the `AsyncIOMotorClient` object initiated, we use Beanie to connect to your database. 

In addition, you also need to define which _models_ we will be connecting to. 

That second piece may be a little confusing, but for now, let's keep going with the connection.

Here is how you finally connect to your database:

    await init_beanie(database=client.db_name, document_models=[SampleDocument])

Those pieces may seem simple enough on their own, but we want our configuration to be robust and flexible, so let's unpack this a bit.

## Back to Models

I'm going to pause here on the configuration front.

We are nearly there, but you will note that in order to initialize Beanie, we need to include a list of the _document models_ we plan on using.

The list can be either a reference to the objects themselves, or a dot separated path (like you use with imports).

Either way, we need to actually have some models to refer to.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Validating the URI)](3.4_Validating_The_URI.md) || [NEXT (Building Models)](3.6_Building_Models.md)   |