# Building Models

Way back in section 3.2, we were looking at what what a database structure might look like. Now we get to translate that into Python!

With Beanie (which uses pydantic under the hood), we can define our database models similar to how we defined our configuration file.

## Beanie

A Beanie model corresponds to a collection (table) in your MongoDB database. When you insert a record into a MongoDB collection (table), the record is referred to as a Document.

>Terminology can get quite complex. I would recommend taking your time until you get a grasp of what these terms are referring to. If you haven't used a document-based storage system before, it often helps to think of the analogous terms to relational databases. Table (in SQL) -> Document (in MongoDB). Row or Record (in SQL) -> Document (in MongoDB).

Beanie uses this naming convention to define models. Whenever you want to define a new document, you inherit the Beanie `Document` model. 

>A Beanie `Document` itself inherits from pydantic's `BaseModel` class. This allows you to define your new models similarly to the settings classes in `config.py`.

A simple Beanie model might look something like this:

    class MyModel(Document):
        """Simple Beanie model/object/document/etc..."""

        name: str
        description: str
        category: Optional[str]

        class Collection:
            name = "my_model"

The nested class `Collection` defines the name of your collection (table), in this case, `my_model`.

In MongoDB, a document (row/record) in this collection might be represented like this:

    {
        "_id": ObjectID(678be987654d3e210d1e23456),
        "name": "Jonas",
        "description": "The workers are going home."
        "category": "Batteries"
    }

MongoDB automatically inserts an ObjectID into each document. Notice that we do not have to define the `_id` in a Beanie model. That is all handled in the background.
    
## The Details

There are lots of of details into how to build your models. Considering that pydantic already provides field validation, this gives you a lot of flexibility in terms of how you define your models.

For API heavy applications, this could provide a great benefit, ensuring that the data that's coming in to your application is validated as soon as the data is consumed.

There are additional features to the pydantic `Field` type, which can help refine the parameters to your data. Take a look at how I might define an `BlogPost` model:

    class BlogPost(Document):
        """Defines collection for blog posts."""

        title: str = Field(..., max_length=85)
        meta_title: str = Field(..., max_length=85)
        summary: str = Field(..., max_length=500)
        slug: str = None
        featured: bool = False
        tag: Optional[list[str]] = []
        author: str = "Mary Moore"

## Here's a Hint

_Type hints_ are a relatively newer addition to Python. They are ordinarily an _optional_ component to your code. It helps (generally) with readability and helps your IDE with auto-complete.

Overall, this is an out-of-scope topic for this article, but it is _important_ to note that pydantic (and Beanie, and FastAPI) rely heavily on the use of type hints.

Beanie uses type hints to provide validation to the data being entered into your database.

For examples, the `featured` attribute above will **only** accept a value of type `bool`. If it receives a `str` or `int` value, you will receive a validation error.

In addition, pydantic allows you to further refine the constraints of certain fields. Note that the `title` and `meta_title` fields will only accept values with a "max length" of 85 characters. 

This "limit" can be a benefit to help keep your titles concise (and SEO friendly). But it is all up to you. You can tweak the parameters as best fits your application.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Initializing the Database)](3.5_Initializing_Database.md) || [NEXT (Follow Along)](3.7_Follow_Along.md)   |