# Follow Along

This has been a pretty dense chapter, but the application of the knowledge is not terribly complex. Depending on the needs of your app, you may spend much more time building and refining your models.

Take as much time as you need thinking about the data you will be dealing with. When working with SQL data, you often need to have your db schema kind of locked in at this stage.

MongoDB provides a little more flexibility. You can easily add/change field parameters to your models. But I would still recommend keeping taking a similar approach to your MongoDB models.

Think of data relationships. One to one. One to many. Many to one. If those terms don't mean anything to you, maybe take a step back and acquaint yourself with database terminology. It will help you later.

In the meantime, I will be building a model for a blog application.

>I didn't forget about fully initializing our db client from section 3.5, but I feel the example will help put the pieces together.

#### Requirements
- A basic understanding of database schema (even with MongoDB)
- A functioning MongoDB instance (whether local or in Atlas)
- Familiarity with Python type hints


### Step 1

We are going to need to use the Beanie package for the following steps. (Make sure your virtual environment is activated.)

    python -m pip install beanie

### Step 2

In your `models` directory, create three new files. Call them `__init__.py`, `base.py`, and `article.py`. In your db directory, create two new files called `__init__.py` and `db.py`.

Your project directory should look somethnig like this now.

    project_root/
    ┣ src/
    ┃ ┣ api/
    ┃ ┣ core/
    ┃ ┃ ┗ config.py
    ┃ ┣ crud/
    ┃ ┣ db/
    ┃ ┃ ┣ db.py         # new!
    ┃ ┃ ┗ __init__.py   # new!
    ┃ ┣ lib/
    ┃ ┣ models/
    ┃ ┃ ┣ article.py    # new!
    ┃ ┃ ┣ base.py       # new!
    ┃ ┃ ┗ __init__.py   # new!
    ┃ ┣ main.py
    ┃ ┗ __init__.py
    ┣ tests/
    ┣ .env
    ┗ .gitignore

### Step 3

Let's flesh out our `db.py` file. We have two objectives. The first will be to create a class for our URI builder. We do this with a `DataBase` class. 

The second piece involves creating a function to initialize our database. We can later use this "on startup" with our FastAPI application, ensuring that each time the application loads, the connection to the database is achieved.

Here is everything that goes into `db.py`.

    from typing import Optional

    from beanie import init_beanie
    from motor.motor_asyncio import AsyncIOMotorClient
    from pydantic import AnyUrl, BaseSettings, validator
    from src.core.config import get_app_settings
    from src.models.article import Article


    settings = get_app_settings()

    class DataBase(BaseSettings):
        """Utility class to define mongodb settings."""

        MONGO_DB_URI: Optional[AnyUrl] = None  # include valid URI directly
        client: AsyncIOMotorClient = None   # attribute for motor client

        @validator("MONGO_DB_URI", pre=True)  # if no URI given, bulid from settings
        def db_is_valid(cls, v):
            if isinstance(v, str):
                return v
            return AnyUrl.build(
                scheme=settings.MONGO_SCHEME,
                user=settings.MONGO_USER,
                password=settings.MONGO_PASS,
                host=settings.MONGO_HOST,
            )


    async def initialize_db() -> None:
        """Initialize the database."""
        db = DataBase()  # create instance of DataBase
        
        auth_name = settings.MONGE_AUTH_NAME  # auth name used to log into mongo
        db_name = settings.MONGO_DB       # database name
        URI = f"{db.MONGO_DB_URI}/admin?authSource={auth_name}"
        
        try:
            await init_beanie(
                database=AsyncIOMotorClient(URI),   # create motor client with URI
                document_models=[Article]         # define document models
            )
        except Exception:
            raise ReferenceError("Database initialization failed.")


    async def close_db() -> None:
        """Close the database."""
        db = DataBase()
        await db.client.close()

### Step 4

This step is optional, but I think it provides a good example into something you may want to achieve in many circumstances.

Beanie and MongoDB already provide a unique identifier for each collection. In MongoDB, this field is referred to as "_id". Beanie takes this field value and converts it into a `PydanticObjectId` `Field` type. You can always access it simply as `id` without ever needing to explicitly define it in your class.

However, there may be other fields that you wish were _always_ included in _every_ collection that you will create.

For example, I like to have a field letting me know when a collection has been created or updated.

To do this, I create a class that inherits from Beanie's `Document` model, adding those fields specifically.

Then, any time I create a new document model, instead of inheriting from `Document` directly, I instead inherit from this newly created class.

In your `base.py` file that we created in the `models` directory, use the following code:

from datetime import datetime
from typing import Optional

from beanie import Document


    class Model(Document):
        """Base class for models saved to db. Inherits from and replaces
        beanie 'Document' class where needed, and adds `created_at` and
        `updated_at` fields for every class object.

        """

        created_at: datetime = datetime.utcnow()
        updated_at: Optional[datetime] = None

You could add additional functionality to your new `Model` class to extend the usage of all your subsequent database models, but for now, this suffices.

### Step 5

I'll start with the content of the `article.py` module, and then a little explanation.

    from datetime import datetime
    from typing import List, Optional

    from pydantic import BaseModel, Field
    from src.models.base import Model


    class ArticleBase(BaseModel):
        main_title: str = Field(..., max_length=85)
        meta_title: str = Field(..., max_length=65)
        meta_description: str = Field(..., max_length=155)
        featured: bool = False
        slug: Optional[str] = None
        summary: str = Field(..., max_length=500)
        content: Optional[str] = None
        est_read_time: Optional[int] = None
        category: Optional[List[str]] = Field([])


    class ArticleCreate(ArticleBase):
        main_title: Optional[str] = None
        meta_title: Optional[str] = None
        meta_description: Optional[str] = None
        featured: Optional[bool] = None
        slug: Optional[str] = None
        summary: Optional[str] = None
        content: Optional[str] = None
        category: list = []


    class ArticleUpdate(ArticleBase):
        main_title: Optional[str] = None
        meta_title: Optional[str] = None
        meta_description: Optional[str] = None
        featured: Optional[bool] = None
        summary: Optional[str] = None
        content: Optional[str] = None
        category: list = []
        updated_at: Optional[datetime] = datetime.utcnow()


    class Article(ArticleBase):
        pass


    class ArticleDB(ArticleBase, Model):
        published: bool = False


Wait, I thought we were only creating **one** document model of type `Article`. Why are there so many here?

When you are using abstraction layers for your database, this helps ensure that the user interacts with your application using relevant data.

Notice that the `ArticleBase` class does not inherit from `Model` (Beanie `Document`). It is a straight pydantic class that defines _all_ values that are relevant to your `Article` class.

However, whenever you _create_ an article, you may not need (or want) to manually enter all of those required fields. For example, the `est_read_time` of an article may be something you want to include in the database, but it may not be something you expect the user to enter when creating an article.

Instead, you may have a method that can calculate the read time of the `content` field on the fly.

Also, let's say you want to update an article. You may want the ability to update most of the fields, but perhaps you don't want to inadvertently update the slug, which represents the path (endpoint) to your article (who wants broken links).

This becomes more apparent when you are using these models in your code.

The only object that truly inherits from Beanie's `Document` class is the `ArticleDB` object. This pulls in all the parameters in `ArticleBase` as well as `Model` and represents the schema that ultimately is saved in your database.

>If the reason to build your models this way is not readily apparent, that is okay. It becomes more first-hand knowledge as you start using these classes within your app logic.

| [CONTENTS](../00_Introduction/01_Table_of_Contents.md)  | | |
|:---|:---:|---:|
|  [PREV (Building Models)](3.6_Building_Models.md) || [NEXT (App Logic)](../04_App_Logic/4.1_Application_Logic.md)   |